hi friends In this video we are going to discuss
about String and Pointer
So as we have studied the string is a character
array
which is terminated by the null character and the string
itself act as a pointer
So for an example consider the character array or string of
size six hello.
So the string name str itself is a pointer
to the base address of the string and so it will
hold 1024
So here str is a pointer to the first
character of the string
Or we can say str+0 points in the first
character of the string and str+1 points to
the second character of the string and str+2 points
to the third character of the string and str+3 points
the fourth character of the string and str+4 points
to the fifth character of the string and finally
str+5 points to the sixth character which is null character
Now let us see how to get address of each
character. So consider the C program, first we're creating the
string
Hello and now we're declaring integer variable i and
using for loop we're printing address of each character in the string
In the first iteration address of str[0]
is printed which is str+0 equal to 1024
In the second iteration, address of str[1]
is printed which is str+1 that is 1025
Similarly in third iteration address of str[2]
is printed which is str+2 that is equal to 1026
In forth iteration address of str[3]
is printed which is str+3 that is equal to 1027
In fifth iteration address of str[4]
is printed which is str+4 that is equal to 1028
and in sixth iteration str[5] equal to
null character
So control comes out of for loop. Now let us see
how to print each character. We have to use the
value at operator * to access the value stored at a
particular memory location
Here we can access the first character h using
*(str+0) second character e using
*(str+1) and we can access the third character
l using *(str+2) and forth character
l using *(str+3) and fifth character
using *(str+4) and finally the sixth
character using *(str+5)
So consider the C program to print each character in
the string until we reach the null character first we are creating
the string Hello and declaring an integer variable i and
using this for loop we are printing each character in
string till we reach the null character
In first iteration str[0] is printed which is
*(str+0) equal to H and in
second iteration str[1] is printed which is
*(str+1) equal to e and in third
iteration str[2] is printed which is
*(str+2) equal to l and in fourth iteration
as str[3] is printed which is *(str+3)
equal to l and in fifth iteration str[4]
is printed which is *(str+4)
equal to o. In sixth iterations str[5] equal
to null character. So control comes out of the for
loop since the condition became false and returns zero. So that's all and thank you for watching this video.